     Today we live in an era where information is processed, almost, with the speed of light.
Through computers, the technological revolution is drastically changing the way we live and
communicate with each other. Terms such as Internet, which was unfamiliar even a few years ago,
are very common today. With the help of computers you can send letters to and receive letters
from loved ones within seconds. You no longer need to send an application by mail to apply for
a job; in many cases you can simply submit your job application via the Internet. You can watch
how stocks perform in real time, and instantly buy and sell. Kids in elementary school regularly
surf the Internet and use computers to design their classroom projects. Students no longer
type their papers on typewriters or write them by hand. Instead, they use powerful word
processing software to complete term papers. Many people maintain and balance their checkbooks
on computers.

     These are some of the ways computers have greatly impacted our daily lives. This is all
made possible because of the availability of different software, which are computer programs.
For example, word processing software are programs that enable you to write term papers, create
impressive looking resumes, and even write a book. Even this book was created with the help of
a powerful word processor. Without software a computer is of no use. However, software are
developed with the help of programming languages. The programming language C++, especially,
is very well suited for developing software to accomplish a specific task.

     Until the early 1990s, before beginning to teach a programming language course,
instructors used to spend the first few weeks just teaching their students how to use
computers. Today, by the time students graduate from high school, they know very well how
to work with a computer. This book is not concerned with explaining how to use computers.
Rather, this book teaches you how to write programs in a language called C++. It is useful,
however, to at least understand some of the basic terminology and different components of a
computer before you begin programming. This chapter briefly describes the main components of
a computer system, the history and evolution of computer languages, and some fundamental ideas
about how to solve problems with computer programming.